http://blog.adduplex.com/2012/02/trial-is-as-native-to-windows-phone-as. 
html 

http://www.hanselman.com/blog/FromConceptToCodeIn6HoursShippingMyFirstWi 
ndowsPhoneApp.aspx 

http://invokeit.wordpress.com/2011/09/20/free-trial-and-paid-apps/ 

http://invokeit.wordpress.com/2011/09/21/direct-free-trial-app-users-to- 
buy-paid-app/ 

When my wife (Katka) and I published our first app we went with the 
trial model. It didn’t do very well. In hindsight it was probably for 
several reasons, but my wife’s second app ‘Photo Location’- a no trial 
paid app - did much better. So, we’ve since gone for the free with ads + 
paid model. Our experience has been that the free with ads + paid model 
allows you to monetize on two fronts, and reaches two market segments: 
users that aren’t interested in paid apps, and those that are. I feel 
that the choice to go with either approach also depends on the nature of 
the app and the market you’re targeting. In my view horizontal markets 
with lots of players are more suited to the free with ads + paid model, 
while more niche apps may do better with the trial model. From what I’ve 
seen so far, I prefer the free with ads+paid model. beauty of Microsoft 
pubCenter ads is that it's impression based, so there is no need to 
receive a tap to earn revenue. It's also just recently been made 
available for Swiss apps too. 

adding to Daniel's comment. the ePCM is okay for adjusts between 
impressions and clicks. i have an app that just does tons of 
impressions. does okay in terms of payout. ePCM for US is roughly 0.40 
or so. Clicks would boast that value up. You can also look at adDuplex 
that specialises in ad exchange. i think i am right now in favour of 
pubCenter with adDuplex fallback. 

to developing trial apps is your marketplace Icon. Since your app only 
shows up in the "paid" area, I have made it so mine have a "banner" 
across them that says "Free Try" so users know that, although it shows 
up as for-pay, you can try it for free, w/o having to tap in to the 
details of the app to find that out. I would, however, be interested in 
hearing from somebody who's done what I'm doing, and then converted to 
two separate apps - one entirely "free" and one that's pay only - and 
compare the results... Anybody have such a tale? posted a short article 
on how to use T4 to generate the WMAppManifest.xml file, enabling the 
paid + free with ads scenarios that we've been talking about, without 
needing to maintain two copies of the file or project. 
http://linkd.in/Id7ZgS 






