http://appclover.com/ 

http://info.tapjoy.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Final-August-Newslette 
r-2012.pdf 

http://inspiredm.com/mobile-monetization-models-making-money-out-of-apps 
/?goback=%2Egde_69893_member_265347953#%21 

Mobile monetization is a problem that usually bothers every mobile 
developer out there. Creating a cool app is only the first step in the 
roadmap of creating a successful application that can be monetized. 
Choosing the appropriate monetization model for an app is usually one of 
the most difficult decisions to be made. Mobile developers are looking 
for more revenue without compromising the user experience and the 
quality of their app. 

We will highlight the most important mobile monetization models that 
exist out there, focusing mainly on mobile advertising models, which 
seem to be quite popular among mobile developers nowadays. 

Mobile Advertising 

One of the most widely used monetization models is mobile ads. There is 
a big debate going on regarding ad methods & tactics, compromising user 
experience level, revenue effectiveness, intrusiveness and users 
drop-off among different mobile ad platforms. Developers are usually 
overflowed with terms such as eCPMs, fill rates, CPI, CPA, CTR and 
others. But what are developers actually looking for? Can a current 
mobile ad platform bring sufficient enough revenue to a developer? Many 
developers usually try different mobile ad platforms or even a 
combination of them to find which ones monetize better their apps. 

What a developer is actually looking for is: 

1) High and efficient revenue 

2) Not compromising app’s user experience 

3) Easiness of SDK integration 

4) Reduce app’s users drop-off 

Mobile ad platforms are using a variety of methods and techniques to 
deliver ads to the users. We will list some of the most important of 
them here: 

Banner Ads 

Banner Ads are one of the most widely used mobile advertising methods. A 
banner is placed somewhere in the UI of the app (therefore it usually 
requires change of the UI of the app). There are different kinds of 
banners and different sizes according to the monetization platform used. 
It’s up to the developer to place them in a place within the app that 
will deliver better conversion rates. Their content varies from text to 
rich media. Some types of banners include expandable, floating and 
interactive banners. A few of the top players in this category are 
AdMob, iAd and Millennial Media. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Interstitials 

Interstitials are usually placed between transition points within or 
while entering or exiting a mobile app (e.g. the change of a game level, 
app launch, app exit and others) and are usually rendered as full screen 
or big popup. Some of them render videos, images or other rich content. 
They are usually used to drive downloads of another app, visit a 
website, show a video and others. These kinds of ads are usually more 
expensive for the publishers, deliver higher revenue when used 
appropriately by the developers and get more attention by the users. 
Well known players at this category are TapJoy, Flurry, LeadBold, RevMob 
and AdColony while Chartboost enables developers to cross-promote 
directly with other apps, providing them this a way an option to drive 
installs on their own apps. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Offer Walls 

Offer walls is a monetization model where users are prompted with a 
landing page full screen wall of targeted offers that provide users with 
virtual items/credits/features or levels unlocks in exchange for 
registration, downloads or others. Some of the key players in this area 
are Tapjoy, StartApp and {FIKSU}. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Notification Ads 

Notification Ads are one of the most intrusive models widely used 
nowadays. Users receive a notification for an ad even without having the 
app open. This kind of model usually pays better for the developers, 
however excessive use can really end up with a lot of unhappy users of 
the app. Some of the key players in this area are Airpush and LeadBold. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Surveys 

Surveys as a monetization method for mobile is a new and emerging trend 
with very promising features. Surveys are rendered as an overlay within 
the apps and therefore developers do not have to change anything in 
app’s UI and flow. Since surveys are rendered as an overlay, integration 
ends up as a drag and drop, one line code activation. Developers are 
paid for each completed survey through their app. Users are prompted to 
take a survey in order to get into a draw for a prize. The key player in 
this area is Pollfish, which claims that surveys deliver revenue up to 
20 times more than classic ad clicks. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps Mobile monetization models making money 
out of apps 

Lock Screen Ads 

Another emerging trend in mobile ads is ads on smartphone’s lock screen. 
Users can choose either to engage or not with the ad and if they do so 
they get paid with real money. One of the downsides of this approach is 
that these platforms can focus only on Android. Some of the key players 
here are AdLatte and Locket. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Other 

There are other monetization models for ads out there that are not 
listed in this article such as audio ads, capture forms, app icons, 
caller ads, widget ads etc. 

Paid applications 

Choosing to follow the paid application approach model, developers have 
to specify a price for the app that the users will have to pay upfront. 
Higher price for an app does not reflect more revenue. With a paid app a 
developer gains a new customer, with much higher expectations than a 
regular mobile app user, who also expects free lifetime updates. Usually 
for the majority of the apps users get disappointed easily since bug 
free operation, or quality app experience and updates frequency do not 
reflect the purchase expectations. Another notable fact here is that 
users do not pay for apps from new developers and tend to buy from 
well-established ones. In addition cross-platform wise this is a model 
more successfully used on iOS rather than Android platform where users 
seem to prefer staying on free applications. Finally, it worth 
mentioning here, that app stores keep a percentage of developers’ 
revenue for each purchase. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Freemium models / In-App Purchases 

The developer provides the basic features of the app for free and then 
requests a price to unlock the rest of the app functionality or provide 
enhanced features. In-App Purchases is a flexible model that can be used 
with free (freemium) or paid apps. Different types of in-app purchases 
exist. Users use in-app purchases to unlock/proceed to a new level, 
receive new features, use a new weapon in a game, receive an update and 
many others. Only quality, useful or engaged apps can be used with this 
model. 

Mobile monetization models making money out of apps Mobile monetization 
models making money out of apps 

Subscriptions 

Subscription model works by distributing the mobile apps for free. User 
has to login into the app using an account who is usually charged for 
the service provided. The model works either for delivering live feed 
data to the user in exchange for a monthly payment fee (e.g. newspapers 
subscriptions, magazine subscriptions etc.) or for using software as a 
service. This kind of model is usually used in combination with web 
solutions, something that usually requires much more effort both on the 
developer side and on customer/users acquisition. 

Choosing the right monetization model for an app, is one of they key 
choices towards its success. The right choice depends heavily on app’s 
content, quality and engagement potential. In most cases traction plays 
a significant role in app monetization. Capitalizing on this traction 
the right way is one of the major decisions in a mobile app’s 
monetization strategy. 

Author bio: Andreas Vourkos is COO of Pollfish, a company that aims to 
change the way mobile surveys are conducted and additionally offering a 
new alternative and effective monetization method for mobile developers. 








Android AdMob 

iOS iAd 

Windows Phone Advertizing?! 

http://appmuse.com/appmusing/how-much-does-it-cost-to-develop-a-mobile-a 
pp/ 

Publisher Exhibitor Lecturer Trainer 

so how is this thing done? Anybody selling their apps from EU? How does 
the taxes story look like for EU members? I guess this is handled by MS 
...? As far I know they (MS) gets 30% (for hosting, app certification 
etc.), the developer 70% of the revenue. This information comes with no 
warranty of any kind ;-) I'll going to sell some WP7 apps in a few weeks 
then I hope I will know it better. You have to declare it as income tax. 
As ms does not deduct tax automatically. See also 
http://create.msdn.com/en-US/home/faq topic "payments": * You'll be paid 
70% of all application sales as your revenue share * You'll be 
responsible for paying all taxes on the payments you receive etc. 
Flasch you'd get (100 * 0,7) - (100 * 0,7 * 0,2) = 56 % of your revenue 
since you should pay tax only from your actual income. I'm gonna verify 
this for Poland thourgh MS representative. Ok, so I've verified that VAT 
tax is handled by MS and income tax is on your hands, so to correct my 
previous statement it's: 100 * 0,7 * 0,77 * 0,81 = 43,659 % of the 
original value 

(that's 30% for MS, 23% PL VAT tax, and 19% PL income tax) 

http://inspiredm.com/mobile-monetization-models-making-money-out-of-apps 
/?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_265347958#%21 

Mobile Monetization Models – Making Money from Your Apps 

Andreas Vourkos on August 21, 2013 with 0 Comments inShare 2 Mobile 
monetization is a problem that usually bothers every mobile developer 
out there. Creating a cool app is only the first step in the roadmap of 
creating a successful application that can be monetized. 

Choosing the appropriate monetization model for an app is often one of 
the most difficult decisions to be made. Mobile developers are looking 
for more revenue without compromising the user experience and the 
quality of their app. 

We will highlight the most important mobile monetization models that 
exist out there, focusing mainly on mobile advertising models, which 
seem to be quite popular among mobile developers nowadays. 

Mobile Advertising 

One of the most widely used monetization models is mobile ads. There is 
a big debate going on regarding ad methods & tactics, compromising user 
experience level, revenue effectiveness, intrusiveness and users 
drop-off among different mobile ad platforms. 

Developers are usually overflowed with terms such as eCPMs, fill rates, 
CPI, CPA, CTR and others. But what are developers actually looking for? 
Can a current mobile ad platform bring sufficient enough revenue to a 
developer? Many developers usually try different mobile ad platforms or 
even a combination of them to find which ones monetize better their 
apps. 

What a developer is actually looking for is: 

High and efficient revenue Not compromising app’s user experience 
Easiness of SDK integration Reduce app’s users drop-off Mobile ad 
platforms are using a variety of methods and techniques to deliver ads 
to the users. We will list some of the most important of them here: 

Banner Ads 

Banner Ads are one of the most widely used mobile advertising methods. A 
banner is placed somewhere in the UI of the app (therefore it usually 
requires a change to the UI of the app). 

There are different kinds of banners and different sizes according to 
the monetization platform used. It’s up to the developer to place them 
somewhere within the app that will deliver better conversion rates. 
Their content varies from text to rich media. Some types of banners 
include expandable, floating and interactive banners. 

A few of the top players in this category are AdMob, iAd and Millennial 
Media. 

Interstitials 

Interstitials are usually placed between transition points within or 
while entering or exiting a mobile app (e.g. the change of a game level, 
app launch, app exit and others) and are usually rendered as full screen 
or big popup. Some of them render videos, images or other rich content. 

They are frequently used to drive downloads of another app, visit a 
website, show a video and others. These kinds of ads are usually more 
expensive for the publishers, deliver higher revenue when used 
appropriately by the developers and get more attention by the users. 

Well known players at this category are TapJoy, Flurry, LeadBolt, RevMob 
and AdColony while Chartboost enables developers to cross-promote 
directly with other apps, providing them this a way an option to drive 
installs on their own apps. 

Offer Walls 

Offer walls is a monetization model where users are prompted with a 
landing page full screen wall of targeted offers that provide users with 
virtual items/credits/features or level unlocks in exchange for 
registration, downloads or others. Some of the key players in this area 
are Tapjoy, StartApp and Fiksu. 

Notification Ads 

Notification Ads are one of the most intrusive models widely used 
nowadays. Users receive a notification for an ad even without having the 
app open. This kind of model usually pays better for the developers, 
however excessive use can end up with a lot of unhappy users of the app. 

Some of the key players in this area are Airpush and LeadBolt. 

Surveys 

Surveys as a monetization method for mobile is a new and emerging trend 
with very promising features. Surveys are rendered as an overlay within 
the apps and therefore developers do not have to change anything in the 
app’s UI and flow. 

Since surveys are rendered as an overlay, integration ends up as a drag 
and drop, one line code activation. Developers are paid for each 
completed survey through their app. Users are prompted to take a survey 
in order to get into a draw for a prize. 

The key player in this area is Pollfish, which claims that surveys 
deliver revenue up to 20 times more than classic ad clicks. 

Lock Screen Ads 

Another emerging trend in mobile ads is ads on smartphone’s lock screen. 
Users can choose either to engage or not with the ad and if they do so 
they get paid with real money. One of the downsides of this approach is 
that these platforms can focus only on Android. 

Some of the key players here are AdLatte and Locket. 

Other 

There are other monetization models for ads out there that are not 
listed in this article such as audio ads, capture forms, app icons, 
caller ads, widget ads, etc. 

Paid Applications 

Choosing to follow the paid application approach model, developers have 
to specify a price for the app that users will have to pay upfront. 
Higher prices for an app do not necessarily reflect more revenue. 

With a paid app, a developer gains a new customer, with much higher 
expectations than a regular mobile app user, who also expects free 
lifetime updates. Usually for the majority of the apps, users get 
disappointed easily since bug free operation, or quality app experience 
and updates frequency do not reflect the purchase expectations. 

Another notable fact here is that some users do not pay for apps from 
new developers and tend to buy from well-established ones. In addition, 
cross-platform wise this is a model more successfully used on iOS rather 
than Android platform where users seem to prefer staying on free 
applications. 

Finally, it worth mentioning here, that app stores keep a percentage of 
developers’ revenue for each purchase. 

Freemium Models / In-App Purchases 

The developer provides the basic features of the app for free and then 
requests a price to unlock the rest of the app functionality or provide 
enhanced features. In-App Purchases is a flexible model that can be used 
with free (freemium) or paid apps. 

Different types of in-app purchases exist. Users make in-app purchases 
to unlock/proceed to a new level, receive new features, use a new weapon 
in a game, receive an update and many others. Only quality, useful or 
engaged apps can be used with this model. 

Subscriptions 

Subscription models work by distributing the mobile apps for free. A 
user has to login into the app using an account who is usually charged 
for the service provided. The model works either for delivering live 
feed data to the user in exchange for a monthly payment fee (e.g. 
newspapers subscriptions, magazine subscriptions, etc.) or for using 
software as a service. This kind of model is usually used in combination 
with web solutions, something that usually requires much more effort 
both on the developer side and on customer/users acquisition. 

Choosing the right monetization model for an app is one of they key 
choices towards its success. The right choice depends heavily on app’s 
content, quality and engagement potential. In most cases, traction plays 
a significant role in app monetization. Capitalizing on this traction 
the right way is one of the major decisions in a mobile app’s 
monetization strategy. 

- See more at: 
http://appclover.com/mobile-monetization-models-making-money-apps/?gobac 
k=%2Egde_2013391_member_267611501#%21 

